1. Would it be possible for the user to develop a new command interpreter using the system-call interface provided by the operating system?
   A:Yes, The command interpreter allows a user to create and manage processes and how they communicate. 
   This functionality is available at user level and may allow someone to develop a new interpreter.
   
2. What is the relationship between a guest operating system and a host operating system in a system like VMware (as discussed in the book?) 
   A: A guest operating system provides its services by mapping them onto the functionality provided by the host operating system.
   What factors need to be considered in choosing the host operating system?
   A: the host operating system needs to support the system calls / functionality required by the guest operating system.
   
3. What is the main advantage of the microkernel approach to system design? 
   A: New functionality does not require changes to the kernel.  This leads to a less complex, more secure and more stable kernel.
   How do user programs and system services interact in a microkernel architecture?
   A: Inter-process communication are handled by the operating system between the user programs and system services.
   
4. What are some disadvantages of using the microkernel approach?
   A: The overheads associated with inter-process communication and high use of the operating systems messaging.
   
5. What are the two models of interprocess communication? 
   A: The message-passing model and the shared-memory model. 
   What are the strengths and weaknesses of the two approaches?
   A: Message passing is useful for exchanging smaller amounts of data, because no conflicts need be avoided. 
   It is also easier to implement than is shared memory for intercomputer communication. 
   Shared memory allows maximum speed and convenience of communication, since it can be done at memory transfer speeds when it takes place within a computer. 
   Problems exist, however, in the areas of protection and synchronization between the processes sharing memory.
   
6. In what ways is the modular kernel approach similar to the layered approach? 
   A: The modular kernel allows limited functionality interfaces  between internal systems and external modules.
   In what ways does it diﬀer from the layered approach?
   A: The layered approach is more locked down and restricted in what can be called between subsystem layers. Modular kernel is not limited in this fashion.
   
7. Collecting time information of programs is vitally important to performance measurements. 
   What challenges do you see modern operating systems have to accurately collect this information?
   A: Any performance metric over time could be affected by interrupts, cache hits/misses, scheduling of various processes and those metrics would need to be collected and 
   analyzed not just for one processor but maybe over multiple processor/core/threads, and much more complex configurations.
